update terminology (#155)
ietf-wg-gnap/gnap-core-protocol: draft-ietf-gnap-core-protocol.md

on the role by the overall protocol. 

Authorization Server (AS)

> : server that grants privileges to a particular end-user and that provides them to a client in the form of an access token. 

Author: We'd have to explain what we mean by "delegated privileges" (that's what the reference to the end-user was trying to circumvent, but maybe it wasn't the best way to do it / I understand what you mean here). 
The rest of your proposal seems fine to be.

> : server that grants privileges to a particular end-user and that provides them to a client in the form of an access token. 

Reviewer: If we define "privileges" then this is "privileges that have been delegated to the parties named" without need for further definition, I think. It's tricky though.

> : server that grants privileges to a particular end-user and that provides them to a client in the form of an access token. 

Author: I keep delegated privileges for the commit, will see later if we can find a better proposal

> : server that grants privileges to a particular end-user and that provides them to a client in the form of an access token. 

Author: I propose not to include "The AS determines which policies apply to any given delegation request." because it's already a sort of requirement, not a definition per say.

> : server that grants privileges to a particular end-user and that provides them to a client in the form of an access token. 

Reviewer: OK, I see where you're going with the thinner definitions now. We can add in the requirements in a different part.

Client
: application operated by an end-user that consumes resources from one or several RSs, possibly requiring access privileges from one or several ASs. 

    Note: this specification differentiates between a specific instance (the Client instance, identified by its public key) and the software running the instance (the Client software). For some kinds of Client software, there could be many instances of a single piece of Client software.

>     Example: a Client can be a mobile application, a web application, etc.

Author: Sure will update accordingly.

Resource Server (RS)

> : server that provides operations on resources where protected operations require that the client provides one or more valid access tokens issued by one or more ASs.

Reviewer: Suggest we remove "client" from this as the RS isn't concerned with (and often doesn't know about) the client software, just the token. I know there was some discussion on this but I also don't care for the "one or more" items here. By saying "a token" and "an AS" we aren't limiting the RS to also accept others, but it's defined by accepting at least one.

```suggestion
: server that provides operations on resources where protected operations require a valid access token issued by an AS trusted by the RS for this purpose.
```

Author: There was the question whether the definitions should allow the possibility for several servers. If we want to reflect the current state of affairs, your proposal is better.

Reviewer: My proposal :allows: several servers without, in my opinion, confusing the matter.

Author: ok with that.

Author: I didn't include "trusted by the RS for this purpose." because I don't want a circular definition

Resource Owner (RO)
: subject entity that may grant or deny operations on resources it has authority upon.

    Note: the act of granting or denying an operation may be manual (i.e. through an interaction with a physical person) or automatic (i.e. through predefined organizational rules).

End-user 

> : natural person that operates with the client software.

Reviewer: This is a case where the end user is using a specific instance of the client software for purposes of the protocol, not just someone who operates the software in general.

```suggestion
: natural person that operates the client instance.
```

Author: yes clearer also

In addition to the roles above, the protocol also involves several 
elements that are acted upon by the roles throughout the process.

Attribute
: characteristics related to a subject.

Access Token
: a data artifact representing a set of rights and/or attributes.

    Note: an access token can be first issued to an client instance (requiring authorization by the RO) and subsequently rotated.

Grant

> : (verb): to receive some attributes at a specific time and valid for a specific duration and/or to permit an instance of client software to exercise some set of delegated rights to access a protected resource (noun): the act of granting.

Reviewer: This breaks the intended verb, which was "permit" for two actions of the client, to exercise and to receive. This should be instead:

```suggestion
: (verb): to permit an instance of client software to receive some attributes at a specific time and valid for a specific duration and/or to exercise some set of delegated rights to access a protected resource (noun): the act of granting.
```

Author: yes sorry, the problem with copy paste. Should be fixed now with latest commit.

In addition to the roles above, the protocol also involves several 
elements that are acted upon by the roles throughout the process.

Attribute
: characteristics related to an end-user.

Access Token

> : digitally signed data that contains specific rights and/or attributes.

Reviewer: A token needn't be signed and needn't contain any information in it whatsoever. Reference-based tokens have neither, for example. Suggest we keep the wider definition. 

```suggestion
: a data artifact representing a set of delegated access rights, the format of which is opaque to the client software.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should include the "opaque" part here: this is an implementation detail and even if specified by the protocol, it is not part of the definition of "token". If we ever choose to support non-opaque tokens, there's no reason to change this definition.

Reviewer: Opaqueness to the client is a clear line in terms of roles and responsibilities. The token value is a message from the AS to the RS, which the client carries but is not required to understand. If there is other information the client needs, it needs to be sent separately from the token. This is where the "subject information" and assertions and the like come into play. As soon as we say "the token might not be opaque" we need to define what the format and contents of the token are, and set expectations of what we expect clients to understand within the token in order to function. The fact that the client doesn't have to see inside the token is one of the key benefits of OAuth that we would be remiss to throw out here.

Note that the token is only opaque to the client, it is not opaque to the RS or AS.

Reviewer 2: This is all good, I just think it is inappropriate in a *definition*. It's an important property of the token, yes, but it's not part of its definition IMHO.

Author: Yes, we tried to avoid having definitions that embed requirements (here opaque). We should put that in another section.

Author: proposal : a data artifact representing a set of rights and/or attributes.

again we have the "delegated" part which would need a definition if we want to include that. I'll think about it.

Author: Currently left a note in issue #145, resolving this conversation for now

>     Note: an access token can be first issued to an end-user (usually requiring his authentication) and subsequently refreshed.

Reviewer: Tokens aren't issued to people, they're issued to software -- also the spec currently uses "rotate" instead of "refresh" language, though that might not be wholly consistent yet so we should check that.

```suggestion
    Note: an access token can be first issued to an client instance (requiring authorization by the RO) and subsequently rotated.
```

Author: same remark as before. You're right, but that issue shows we need to explain the relationship between the user and the software (aka delegated access).

Claim

> : statement about a subject.

Reviewer: I don't think this is a helpful definition, especially if we only use it in the context of "subject information" below. It's a very general term to the point of being almost meaningless.

Author: currently, it's indeed used only in subject information. The idea was to say that it is a statement made by someone, not a fact. Can merge into the main definition if we don't find that useful.

Author: removed

Grant

> : (verb): to permit an end-user to exercise some rights and/or to assert some attributes at a specific time and during a specific duration. (noun): the act of granting.

Reviewer: The rights aren't delegated to the user, they're delegated to the client software, usually to act on behalf of the user. Also the assertion of attributes is :from: the AS, not from the end-user.

```suggestion
: (verb): to permit an instance of client software to exercise some set of delegated rights to access a protected resource and/or to receive some attributes at a specific time and during a specific duration. (noun): the act of granting such delegated rights.
```

Author: yes same remark as before, to be propagated everywhere.

Author: Proposal: (verb): to permit an instance of client software to exercise some set of delegated rights to access a protected resource and/or to receive some attributes at a specific time and during a specific duration. (noun): the act of granting.

Privilege

> : right or attribute associated with an end-user.

Reviewer: Are these associated with the end user or the resource owner?

Author: people seem to have different options about that. Right now I left it generic enough, but this could change in the future if we see we don't need to leave that open.

Author: To keep that generic, I suggest 
"right or attribute associated with a subject."

I also included a note
Note: the RO defines and maintains the rights and attributes associated to the protected resource, and might temporarily delegate some those privileges to an end-user. This process is refered to as privilege delegation. 

-> as a proposal to solve the delegated privilege issue

Resource
: public or protected resource from a RS.

Protected Resource

> : protected API (Application Programming Interface) served by a RS and that can be accessed by a client, if and only if a valid access token is provided.

Reviewer: What's the value of separating "resource" and "protected resource"? Do we have an "unprotected resource" in scope?

Author: No, but then we probably should always refer to protected resource everywhere?

Reviewer: Yes, it probably should either be protected resource or, most likely, RS everywhere as that's what the protocol deals with.

Author: ok, proposed change: 

Resource Server (RS)
: server that provides operations on protected resources where operations require a valid access token issued by an AS trusted by the RS for this purpose.

+ keep protected resource definition
- remove resource definition

Will have to check in the main text that we refer to the RS or protected resources

Author: When doing it,this creates long/convoluted sentences -> I just add a note "Note: to avoid complex sentences, the specification document may simply refer to resource instead of protected resource."

    ~ ~ ~ indicates a potential equivalence or out-of-band communication between roles
~~~

> - (A) The End-user interacts with the client instance to indicate a need for resources on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (A) The end-user interacts with the client instance to indicate a need for resources on
```

Author: good catch

    behalf of the RO. This could identify the RS the client instance needs to call,
    the resources needed, or the RO that is needed to approve the 

>     request. Note that the RO and End-user are often

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    request. Note that the RO and end-user are often
```

Author: editorial change accepted

    using a variety of possible mechanisms including web page
    redirects, applications, challenge/response protocols, or 
    other methods. The RO approves the request for the client instance

>     being operated by the End-user. Note that the RO and end-user are often

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    being operated by the end-user. Note that the RO and end-user are often
```

Author: editorial change accepted

~~~
    +--------+                                  +--------+         +------+

>     | Client |                                  |   AS   |         | User |
>     |Instance|                                  |        |         |      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Client |                                  |   AS   |         | End  |
    |Instance|                                  |        |         | User |
```

Reviewer: Oh good catch, I missed that this one was previously RO + RQ and over-corrected.
